enforcement.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Enforcement
---

# Enforcement Manual

All responses to reports of conduct violations will be managed by a [Code of Conduct Committee][] (“the Committee”).

TC39 will establish this Committee, comprised of at least three members; the TC Chair and Vice-Chairs will automatically be part of it. One member will be designated Chair of the Committee and will be responsible for all reports back to TC39. TC39 will review membership on a regular basis.

### How the Committee Will Respond to Reports

When a report is sent to the Committee they will reply to the report to confirm receipt within 24 hours.

See the [Reporting Guidelines][] for details of what reports should contain. If a report doesn’t contain enough information, the Committee will strive to obtain all relevant data before acting. The Commitee is empowered to act on the TC39’s behalf in contacting any individuals involved to get a more complete account of events.

The Committee will then review the incident and determine, to the best of their ability:

*   What happened.
*   Whether this event constitutes a Code of Conduct violation.
*   Who, if anyone, was involved in the violation.
*   Whether this is an ongoing situation.

This information will be collected in writing, and whenever possible the Committee’s deliberations will be recorded and retained (e.g. IRC transcripts, email discussions, or recorded voice conversations).

The Committee should aim to have a resolution agreed very rapidly; if not agreed within a week, it will inform the parties of the planned date.

### Resolution

The Committee must agree on a resolution by consensus. If the Committee cannot reach consensus, the Committee will turn the matter over to the Ecma ExeCom for resolution.

Responses will be determined by the Committee on the basis of the information gathered and of the potential consequences. It may include taking no further action, issuing a reprimand (private or public), asking for an apology (private or public), or contacting the company that the individual belongs to. It could even result in a temporary or permanent exclusion from some of the TC39 working spaces such as mailing lists or IRC. For any contemplated action other than a reprimand or an apology, the Committee shall inform the Ecma ExeCom. Any exclusion needs to follow the process described in the Ecma bylaws.

Such actions taken by the Committee will be reported as part of the TC39 report to the ExeCom.

The Committee will never publicly discuss the issue; all public statements, if needed, will be made by the TC39 Chair and/or the Ecma Secretariat.

### Conflicts of Interest

In the event of any conflict of interest - i.e., members who are personally connected to a situation, a Committee member must immediately notify the other members, and recuse themselves. 

[Code of Conduct Committee]: /code-of-conduct-proposal/Committee
[Reporting Guidelines]: /code-of-conduct-proposal/reporting

Commit message:

Move references section to enforcement page
Closes #30

enforcement.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: Enforcement
---

# Enforcement Manual

All responses to reports of conduct violations will be managed by a [Code of Conduct Committee][] (“the Committee”).

TC39 will establish this Committee, comprised of at least three members; the TC Chair and Vice-Chairs will automatically be part of it. One member will be designated Chair of the Committee and will be responsible for all reports back to TC39. TC39 will review membership on a regular basis.

### How the Committee Will Respond to Reports

When a report is sent to the Committee they will reply to the report to confirm receipt within 24 hours.

See the [Reporting Guidelines][] for details of what reports should contain. If a report doesn’t contain enough information, the Committee will strive to obtain all relevant data before acting. The Commitee is empowered to act on the TC39’s behalf in contacting any individuals involved to get a more complete account of events.

The Committee will then review the incident and determine, to the best of their ability:

*   What happened.
*   Whether this event constitutes a Code of Conduct violation.
*   Who, if anyone, was involved in the violation.
*   Whether this is an ongoing situation.

This information will be collected in writing, and whenever possible the Committee’s deliberations will be recorded and retained (e.g. IRC transcripts, email discussions, or recorded voice conversations).

The Committee should aim to have a resolution agreed very rapidly; if not agreed within a week, it will inform the parties of the planned date.

### Resolution

The Committee must agree on a resolution by consensus. If the Committee cannot reach consensus, the Committee will turn the matter over to the Ecma ExeCom for resolution.

Responses will be determined by the Committee on the basis of the information gathered and of the potential consequences. It may include taking no further action, issuing a reprimand (private or public), asking for an apology (private or public), or contacting the company that the individual belongs to. It could even result in a temporary or permanent exclusion from some of the TC39 working spaces such as mailing lists or IRC. For any contemplated action other than a reprimand or an apology, the Committee shall inform the Ecma ExeCom. Any exclusion needs to follow the process described in the Ecma bylaws.

Such actions taken by the Committee will be reported as part of the TC39 report to the ExeCom.

The Committee will never publicly discuss the issue; all public statements, if needed, will be made by the TC39 Chair and/or the Ecma Secretariat.

### Conflicts of Interest

In the event of any conflict of interest - i.e., members who are personally connected to a situation, a Committee member must immediately notify the other members, and recuse themselves. 

## References

### Ecma Bylaws Article 5.1 (extract):

> Membership of a company shall be terminated in the following cases:
> ...
> - by expulsion for violation of Bylaws and Rules or for any other conduct prejudicial to the interest and correct functioning of the Association.

### Ecma Bylaws, Articles 5.3, 5.4 5.5:

> 5.3 Any proposal to expel an Ecma member shall be backed by at least one-fifth of all the ordinary members. The proposal to expel shall be on the agenda for the General Assembly at which is it going to be discussed so as to give the member the opportunity to present its case.
> 5.4 A two-thirds majority of all the ordinary members is necessary to expel an Ecma member. Such expulsion will become effective 15 days after notification by registered mail.
> 5.5 An Ecma member which had been expelled can only be re-admitted by the General Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all ordinary members.

TC39 has specified further the terms of “prejudicial conduct” and has expanded on how to deal with incidents that can lead to it, in the (currently experimental) TC39Code of Conduct below. Other committees may want to have similar codes.

[Code of Conduct Committee]: /code-of-conduct-proposal/Committee
[Reporting Guidelines]: /code-of-conduct-proposal/reporting
